The Doctor of Veterinarian Medicine degree was
first granted at Texas A&M in 1920. Yeah. But the
school didn't grant a master's degree in
Veterinarian Medicine or a doctor, well the
doctor's degree was first issued in 1955. I was
wondering why did it take so long? Well because
The enrollment was relatively small, and we
didn't have research individuals.
Most of them had a degree in veterinary medicine,
but did not have any advanced degrees in research,
like master's and
PhD. that had to come gradually as more of the staff
had an opportunity to get, in other words, lots of
them would have to take courses
and take them four, five, six years to get a
master's degree. So it took quite a while to build
up a backlog of individuals that were
research-minded.
To be a good research man, you've got to be research
minded. And originally, we were trying to turn out
clinicians. Right. And research was something
else. Now it wasn't until after the war that they
really started putting pressure on. Who's they?
Who's they? The college authorities, the
university authorities. Okay. on departments to
get advanced degrees and do research.
Up to that time, A&M
was not a great research institution. And then, in
other words, it was sometime between, or it was
right after the Second World War, as a matter of
fact, that the emphasis of the School of
Veterinarian Medicine changed. one from, and
correct me if I'm wrong, a training ground for
clinicians to a much more specialized and a much
more research-oriented school? Yes. I'd say
that's right. And do you think that the
specialization has had an impact on the quality of
education?
That's hard to evaluate, for me to evaluate. Now, a
man that's doing research, I'll say this, he likes
in his classes, he'll always be drumming his
students on what he has discovered in research or
what research he's doing and he's going to put a lot
of emphasis on his research. Whereas the men who
were teaching as more or less clinicians
put it more on the practical side. So I think you can
go as far as training. If you're going to train
veterinarians to be veterinarians, you can go
overboard on research. You'd much rather have
them good surgeons or good internal medicine or
something of that nature rather than full of a
bunch of research statistics. There's after all,
there's just so much time. Right, absolutely.
You're either going to turn out a good clinician or
a good research man. And when does the student make
up his mind if he wants to be a clinician or if he
wants to go on for an advanced degree? It has to be
after he graduates. After he gets his doctorate in
medicine. That's right. OK. You know, as you well
know, in the last half century, there's been a
trend in most fields, especially in medicine, it
seems to me, a trend from training general
practitioners to specialists. We can even see
this in the field of history. American historians
to people who are studying just recent American
history, or people who are just studying economic
American history, or something like that. Much
more specialization. Is that the same tendency in
veterinarian medicine? Seems to be, yes. In other
words, as you get these staff members who are PhDs,
now bear in mind, that's a research. They're going
to want to teach that one specialty. That's the
thing they know the best, and that's what they
should be teaching. So, yes, there's quite a
difference there.
Are there any other reasons besides these
advanced degree people? Are there any other
reasons, do you think, for more specialization?
Well, it's just personal preference. Just like
one man going to small animals and one man going to
large animals, it's just what you'd like to do. No,
if you want to be a research man, you can't be a
practitioner, because you'd starve to death.
Somebody has to foot the bill for research. In most
cases, it's the government.
Let's talk about your duties
from the Second World War to the present. You were
the head of Veterinarian Hygiene, and then you
were Assistant Dean in Curricular Affairs. We
talked about Veterinarian Hygiene. Can you tell
us about the Assistant Dean in Curricular
Affairs? What did you do there? What were your
functions and duties? I served just as a dean. The
Dean Boughton had a stroke and was incapacitated.
So I was acting dean. Hiring and firing and-
Everything, yeah. Salaries and- The whole works.
All administrative. How'd you like that? Not too
much. Why not? It's pretty draggy. You get into
administration, a lot of paperwork, and here
there's always somebody coming up with some fool
questionnaire that they want you to fill out.
You're up in cloud nine half the time. So,
I enjoyed it all right, but there's lots of
pressures there that are not too enjoyable.
Yeah, you're always having to do things that you'd
rather not do. because they have to be done. For
example? Well, there's always all kinds of
meetings to go to all over the country, one kind or
another. All these associations of universities
and all that, and that gets pretty tiresome. and it
takes up a lot of time that you'd rather be doing
something else with. And while you had this
position, did you have any classroom
responsibilities? Yeah, I went on with, sure.
So this is sort of an extra burden. That's right.
That's what it amounted to. Somebody had to do it
and they asked me to do it. So I did it. Why do you
think they asked you? I don't know.
Because they liked me. I don't know. At least the
ones that were in there at the time. But
I don't know why they asked me. Now, after that
position, you were head of the Department of
Public Health. In what way was that different than
being head of the Department of Veterinary and
Hygiene? Same thing. Just a different name? Just a
different name. I told you in the beginning that
veterinary hygiene was a poor choice of terms. But
they couldn't come up with a better one.
During 30 years, you must have been on some
important committees. Would you like to talk
about that?
Golly, I can't remember the committees I was on.
I was on the athletic council one time, and
I was on other committees, but I can't remember
what they were now. They'd function for a while,
they'd do what they had to do and be disbanded.
That was kind of a constant thing going on all the
time.
You'd be appointed to a committee or else you'd be
asked or told to do certain things and I can't
remember all those. Then let's go back to what we
were just talking about and that is research. I
have a couple of quick questions on research. It
appears that research in American Veterinarian
Medicine has made some great strides in the last 30
years or so. What is the School of Veterinary, what
fields of research are we strong in at the School of
Veterinarian Medicine here? I can't answer that.
I don't know.
Well I can't, I know when I was out there, I guess,
poultry diseases. They were strong on poultry
diseases.
That's about the only thing we were strong on as far
as research is concerned that I can think of at that
time. Not with cattle research? You know, it just
seems to me, Texas, cattle, Texas A&M School of
Veterinary Medicine probably would be pretty
strong in cattle.
Well, yes, but your teaching staff didn't have
much time
for research. Now, Dr. Schmidt, principally that
was his job. He was always doing research or
troubleshooting.
He did a lot of research on
pyroplasmosis, pyroplasmosis.
Then they did some on anaplasmosis. They did quite
a bit on anaplasmosis. They did have, they did some
work on, they had a black-legged research project
and an anthrax research project.
And, but I don't, I came, I wasn't too familiar with
the prize. See, that was separate. Right. I
understand that. I was just, I just wanted your
ideas on this. During your last few years here,
here, we, the nation seemed, and I've talked to
people up at Purdue about this, the nation and
seemed to go through a green revolution they
called it, the green revolution in the 1960s and
the increase in production and new strains of
wheat and all, things like that. Do you remember if
that was a topic of conversation here in your last
four or five years or did it have any impact at all?
No, not on me. Okay, fine, fine. And that brings me,
speaking on a more international scene, that
brings me to another question. That is
international studies. Did you have any role
whatsoever in international studies in the
School of Veterinary Medicine?
Not in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Now I did
attend some conferences that had to do with
international veterinary problems,
but I don't think it affected us there in the
veterinary college.
It was just a question of
listening to these people from various countries
talk about their problems, and usually it was the
government men that, that is the American
government men, veterinarians and whatnot, that
more or less call the shots because they were
putting up all the money. Sure, sure. In other
words, you didn't spend any time overseas. No. For
example, Dr. Turk spent some time in South
America. Oh, he went to Peru once. No. Now Ted
Franklin spent more time out of the country, I
guess, than anybody else. He was in
the Dominican Republic for a while.
And
where else did he go? I think he went to Africa for a
while. And
well, there's a man in parasitology that was in
Africa for a year.
When did we start having these more international
contacts? After World War I, II. After World War
II? In the late 1940s and then the 50s? Yeah.
Mostly in the 50s, I'd say.
Oh lots of, some of these South American countries
would want to set up a veterinary school or start a
veterinary school.
They'd ask someone to come down and help them.
Sure, right. They'd say they wanted to ask me to go
to Venezuela one time, but I wasn't interested.
That was after I retired. I think it was Venezuela,
somewhere down there.
And I've forgotten what they called those
programs. Anyway, they had a, government was also
sponsoring another program that had to do with the
retired people, not necessarily in veterinary
medicine, but businessmen, creamery operators,
owners of, and who had retired, had to go to
Thailand or somewhere and set up, help them set up a
creamery over there.
But no, it didn't affect us too much.
Now could we turn back to your service, your
personal service over almost 30 years in the vet
school.
In every man's career, really there are high
points and low points you might say. Could you
reflect on what you feel were perhaps your
shortcomings or things that you thought you
wanted to complete, but you just for some reason
didn't, and then on what you feel are your
achievements, things that you did achieve.
No,
I don't think I have anything that I that strikes me
as being a high point or a low point in my career is
more or less doing things that needed to be done. I
can't think of it as being a high point or a low
point. It was more or less of a plateau all the way
through for me. How about strengths? strengths or
weaknesses. What fields did you feel that you made
a strong contribution teaching?
Well, I guess it was in developing that veterinary
public health program because there was nothing
there when I went there. And I had to start from
scratch and develop it. And well, I'm still
developing it. When I left there,
Dr. Russell had come there with me. I think that was
in about 1957, 58.
he had a master's public health that he'd gotten at
Tulane and
then we developed some of course an epidemiology
that
veterinary, well public health and this
epidemiology of course is
how different diseases are transmitted. In other
words, the history of the outbreak, that sort of
thing, and how it behaves.
And then while he was there, he got his PhD there at
A&M, and he's still out there. I think he teaches
mostly epidemiology now.
So I don't know that there's any, that I have any
high points. What about your students in
veterinary or in public health? Where were most of
those people placed and what are they doing?
Well, a lot of them, after they graduated of
course, They don't come to any, they don't take
veterinary medicine to become veterinary
hygienists or anything of that nature. They come
there to become practitioners. Now a lot of them,
after they graduated, they went to the service and
a lot of them are in public health work. I see. As a
result of that, and
I hope that what we gave them in veterinary hygiene
and veterinary public health was a stepping stone
to help them while they were in the service. Now
most of them that didn't go to the service don't go
into public health. For some reason or other they
become, while they're in the service, since
they're principal job is public health. I think a
lot of them go into public health work when they get
out of the service.
Rather than go into, well they've been out of
contact with practice, with the practice of
veterinary medicine, and they prefer to go into
public health work. rather than try to catch up on
what's happened in the clinical subjects and go
into practice. Now that's a
feeling I have. OK. I have a final question. We've
talked about a number of changes in the School of
Vet and Medicine since the 1920s to your
retirement in 1965. along with your thoughts on a
lot of these changes. What have I missed? Is there
anything that I haven't talked about or asked that
you'd like to discuss? No, I think you've about
cleaned me out. I can't say that I can think of
anything
more that I can throw in there. Anything with your
career would that you'd like to talk about. I'm
sure there's probably something in there that
I've missed about your personal career that you
might.
Oh, my personal career I guess has been pretty
uninteresting. Uninteresting
to anybody else but me.
I had lots of good experiences. I appreciate all of
them. All of them taught me something when I was in
practice and then working for the city in Beaumont
and coming to A&M and trying to develop a course or
courses in, well, veterinary hygiene at that
time. later became Veterinary Public Health.
But as far as really exciting points,
I have none that I can think of. Okay, and you don't
think that there's any other topics that we should
discuss that I might have missed?
I can't think of anything right now.
As I tell most people, I'll think about it about
midnight and I'll call you. But
no, I can't think of anything else right now. Okay,
then this ends our interview with Dr. Fred Jaggi.
Thank you very much. Been a pleasure.